# EcoCuisine
In a world where meals can be ordered with the click of a button, EcoCuisine strives to provide a more sustainable alternative to food delivery. EcoCuisine rewards users who make environmentally friendly choices with EcoPoints, which can be redeemed as discounts in future orders. 

## Inspiration
Our inspiration to develop this application stemmed from our experiences ordering food through platforms like Uber Eats. As we enjoyed the convenience of such services, we couldn't ignore the environmental impact of the food delivery industry. Recognizing the need for a more sustainable approach, we embarked on a mission to revolutionize the way food is delivered. Our goal is to introduce eco-friendly practices and innovative solutions that will contribute to a greener and more sustainable future for the food delivery sector.

## What it Does
EcoCuisine is a food delivery platform where users are incentivized to make good choices in regards to the environment. They are rewarded for choosing restaurants that are closer to reduce emissions from car gas, as well as choosing meals that contain more organic ingredients and less environmentally taxing procedures, such as grilling. They are rewarded in the form of EcoPoints, which we represent using blockchain tokens. These tokens can then be redeemed for discounts on future orders, giving users a reason to think twice about the environment while ordering food.

## How we built it
We built this website on top of the JavaScript framework React. With its powerful idea of component based development along with its extraordinary routing system, we were able to create a UI that was not only appealing and elegant, but also user friendly and simple to use. To power the application, we used **MongoDB Atlas** to store data on restaurants and food, which allowed us to maintain a large amount of data in the cloud. We used this data to compute an EcoScore for each order, from which the amount of EcoPoints to be awarded was determined. We also used **Hedera** to track the EcoPoints of each user with blockchain technology. Our application revolved around these EcoPoints, and we found that using Hedera's revolutionary software, we were able to maintain the EcoPoints of each user as a token of fluctuating value, and this seemed like a robust solution. Finally, for the purpose of authentication, we used **Auth0**, which opened the door for users to not only sign in with Google, but also only have to sign in once, as the site will recognize the user in the future.

## Challenges we ran into
We ran into the most challenges when implementing the **MongoDB** database. We didn't have experience maintaining NoSQL databases, and the integration of the database with the React application was a little bit tricky, as we didn't want to have a back end running on our computer. At the end though, everything worked out, and we were able to use the database as needed. 

## Accomplishments that we're proud of
We are proud of every part of this project, from the conceptualization to the execution, but perhaps what we are most proud of is our implementation of **Hedera**. Nobody in our team has ever used blockchain technology before. In fact, we weren't even sure what exactly blockchain was and what its capabilities were. Now, as a team, we are not only much more knowledgeable on the idea of blockchain as a whole, but thanks to Hedera's simple API service, we now have actually created something with it.

## What we learned
Creating this project was nothing short of a journey for our team, and we know for sure that it has given us much knowledge to take with us in the future. For one, we learned how to effectively collaborate using Git and **Github**. We each worked in separate branches, and at the end, we merged in order to have a finished project. We communicated well throughout the entire development experience, which led to minimal merge conflicts. We also learned a great deal about blockchain through **Hedera**, and full stack web application development with React and **MongoDB**.

## What's next for EcoCuisine
In the future, we would like to expand our database to include more data on restaurants and their menus. We would also like to alter the algorithm we use to compute EcoPoints to be awarded, as we feel like it could be improved to better reflect actual emissions. The main feature we would like to add to this application in the future, however, is an online payment service that allows our users to pay directly through the website to both us and the restaurants they are ordering from. 